As soon as you catch sight of yourself (not a reflection, clearly) standing some twenty feet away to the left and right, your head aches and a name sears its way across you consciousness: Sarintha...  As your knowledge of the name given by your parents permeates your being, a wash of memories overtake you: in some you are a child at play; in others a woman grown, at work in a barn.  In still others, you hold your terror in check while battling goblins in a village square, or huddle, nearly frozen, with other children near a dying fire.  Taking a deep breath, you steady yourself.  The vignettes are less jumbled now, and seem to weave a tapestry of recollection that varies between chalkboard lessons and visceral truths...


Born to Maxallan and Wistrina in the village of Ghent, south of Kalaman,  Sarintha is named for her great aunt and her maternal grandmother; her great uncle, Althalan Pathwarden, had been a minor Solamnic Lord before his death, after which the families' fortunes fell due to the depredations of her uncle Gregor (now dead), which culminated in his expulsion from the Knighthood and exile from Solamnia.  Her forbears had been fairly prodigious over the past several generations, though the previous generation had produced more girls than boys, and marriages further diminished and dispersed the family holdings, despite their being an ancient line.  Maxallan was content to administer his small farm outside Ghent with no aspirations to join the Knighthood, but he was always loyal to the Solamnic ideals of honor, justice, and service.

When his daughter was born (325-03-22), Maxallan did hope that Sarintha might pursue service to the Knights, since he lacked sufficient wherewithal to provide any dowry for her if he was to leave her brother (Kelthin) any inheritance at all (to continue running the farm).  Sarintha was very keen on honor and duty, but seemed to not care much for her name, claiming when she was six that it sounded "dowdy".  After her mother chided Sarintha for her lack of respect, she asked if trying to get people to use 'Sara' would work, but the precocious child rejected that as 'sounding un-knightly'.

By the age of nine, Sarintha had made a name for herself as a well-behaved and trustworthy youth: she went out of her way to help others, and could always be counted upon to do the right thing.  The other children in the village ragged on her for being 'bossy' and a tattle-tail, but their attitude changed during Sarintha's eleventh winter.  A fresh, good snow had fallen: the kind that isn't too damp but isn't too dry, just right for forts and snowball fights, snowmen and sledding.  The village children were all out at play in the hills when a blizzard blew up out of nowhere.  Sarintha gathered the other children and led them to shelter in a nearby cave, dashed out into the teeth of the storm to gather materials for a fire, and returned, exhausted.  The children were stranded for two days, and if not for her actions, some or all of them could easily have perished.  Once they were rescued, the children dubbed her the Winter Knight of Ghent, and did not tease or pester her from then on.

By the time she was 15, she felt ready to leave Ghent on her own, to seek out the Knights and petition to become a squire, all the more so because the farm was losing money.  She hoped to win her spurs and return to Ghent as a Knight-Warden of the Crown, to better protect the town as the stories said the Knights had done in times past.  Before she could depart, though, her mother was taken ill, and she felt she could not leave her family shorthanded.  She set aside her knightly aspirations and stayed to help with the farm.  Many young men tried to win her affections, but the Winter Knight had never given up on her goal to turn her dream of proper knighthood into a reality...  She merely set it aside "until things got better".  She gently but firmly turned down each suitor, as she had no intentions of becoming caught up with a family of her own before fulfilling her dream.  (Perhaps the fact that her father had no real means of providing a dowry also had some part in her comportment, for she was proud of her lineage.)

She did not turn down the offer from Old Mathias to train with the village militia, though, and proved to be a capable warrior, defending her friends and family against three goblin raids over the years.  When she turned 21, Mathias decided to retire, and attempted to entice her to take his position leading the Militia.  Sarintha again demurred, saying that she would have too short a tenure in command, insisting that she would be leaving for Solamnia any time now, she was sure, as soon as her mother was well again.

Time passed, though, as it tends to, and while Wistrina eventually recovered, she was still not really fit to resume the duties that her daughter had taken on.  Sarintha had only just celebrated her 25th naming day when the peaceful village of Ghent was fallen upon by the dread war machine of the Dragonarmies.  A scouting party of hobgoblins and draconians discovered the village; they were unable to resist their instinct to pillage such a tempting target.  Most of the villagers were captured, but some escaped and were killed; while the village militia was capable of defending against the occasional goblin raid, they proved no match for the dragonarmy scouts.  Sarintha fought alongside the rest of the militia, managing to kill two hobgoblins and even a draconian, but was captured after her spear unexpectedly became stuck in the petrified Baaz.  Separated from her family by the struggle, she was marched across the hills of Estwilde, to Talvan.  She got the impression there that her captors had not entirely pleased their superiors, but the phrase "more slaves are always useful," chilled her with the thought that there were yet others who shared the plight of her friends and family.

Cautiously sizing things up while waiting to be processed (she was sure that a powerful military command structure was at work; in her estimation, being a goblin slave shouldn't have required *paperwork*), Sarintha had just caught sight of someone who looked very much like her brother Kelthin when she was yanked roughly out of line and brought before what was clearly an officer of some kind.  He spoke in a harsh, unfamiliar language, and she felt a heavy blow to the back of her head.

She awoke in a frozen ruin, as an elf bent close over her with an ominous glint in his eye.  As she struggled against her restraints, he spoke of torments to come which would instill obedience...  In that last moment of clarity, in desperation, she prayed to the only Gods she had ever heard of, the Ancient Gods of her people, to aid her and let her remain faithful to her true self: Sarintha Lidaelian uth Matar, the Winter Knight of Ghent.