Winter knows little about her past, retaining only dim memories of a small farming village near hills and a forest.  There are more recent memories that dance in her dreams from time to time, nightmares of ice... and torment in black and white.

Her earliest proper memories are of captivity in a fort of some kind, a battle raging outside, and being freed by a tired young man calling himself Sturm Brightblade.  They were set upon alomst immediately by Winter's erstwhile captors, but managed somehow to fight their way free to discover that the other members of Sturm's company all appeared to be dead, but that they had managed to slay, or at least drive off, Winter's captors.  Sturm mourned for his fallen comrades, but was honor-bound to take Winter to safety.

It was three days before the pair realized that Sturm's health was somehow failing, and another day before they reached an herbalist at Firstwal, Gertie the Green.  She confirmed their fears: Sturm had been poisoned, and her herb lore knew of no antidote that could fully restore his health.  Sturm insisted that they make for Vingaard Keep, to report the results of the failed raid to his superiors, rather than remain in Gertie's care.  When she saw that he was determined, she suggested that Winter take Sturm to the Loam, a bog that she claimed to have healing powers.  They stopped there for a day, but though Sturm showed minor improvement, he would not hear of delaying their journey to Vingaard further.

It was a month of hard travel, through the Throtyl Gap and across Gaarlund, during which time Sturm's condition remained poor.  When the pair arrived at Vingaard Keep, they learned that the city of Vingaard had expelled the Knighthood.  The city council had hired a large contingent of mercenaries to effect the eviction; these men took exception to Sturm's knightly attire.  In the ensuing fracas, Sturm was wounded further, and the pair beat a hasty retreat.  The High Road to Palanthus was entirely blocked by mercenary agents of the Vingaard council, so Sturm and Winter retreated to the nearby ruins of Castle Brightblade.  Winter was particularly hopeful that rest in his ancestral home would allow Sturm to recover sufficiently to make the trip to the High Clerist's Tower across the open country.

In the rainy week that followed Sturm grew worse still, having exhausted the salves and ointments Gertie had given them.  Sensing the potential that he might not survive his injuries, and perhaps also the inherent integrity in Winter that mirrored his own, Sturm formally adopted the young lady into the Brightblade family according to the requirements and dictates of the Measure.  The following morning dawned sunny and bright, and Sturm seemed to have reached a turning point in his convalescence, but as fate would have it, this morning saw the arrival of Merinsaard of Bayarn to Castle Brightblade, to bring about the end of the Brightblade line.  In despicable ambush, Merinsaard impaled young Brightblade on a poisoned spear.

Winter was not far, though, and took up the Brightblade to defend her friend.  The combat with Merinsaard was fierce and terrible, but Winter emerged the victor in time to provide some comfort to Sturm in his final moments.  It was then that Sturm laid upon her the charge to return in his place to Solace, to the Inn of the Last Home, both to deliver news of his passing to his dearest friends, and also to carry the heartening news of their discovery of the Loam bog, perhaps a sign of the True Gods.